# NOT YET COMPLETE

# Builder Pattern
This directory contains examples of the Builder design pattern implemented in TypeScript.The Builder pattern separates the construction of a complex object from its representation which allows for different types and representations to be created with the same construction code. Thus the pattern is used when you want to create a complex object step by step. It is particularly useful when an object may have various configurations and optional components, and you want to provide a clear and consistent way to construct the object. There is also the director which defines common products that will be made using a given builder, although not necessary the director comes in handy.If at any point you would like to obtain and run these files refer to the root `README.md` found [here](../../).

## Conceptual Example
The conceptual example can be found in `conceptual.ts` and ran from `conceptual.js`. The TypeScript files contains the code and explanations of what each element does in the design pattern.

## Real-World Example
The real worl example I chose to implement is car production. The TypeScript file is names `car_production.ts` and the executable JavaScript file, with node, is called `car_production.js`. This example uses the builder pattern to create cars and car manuals. The `Builder` interface defines the parts that we want to put in our car/manual. The `CarBuilder` and `CarManualBuilder` are responsible for implementing the `Builder` interface to build `Car` and `CarManual` objects respectivly. The parts that we consider are `CarType`, `Seats`, `Engine`, `Transmission`, `TripComputer`, and `Radio`. These parts are built and added to the object via the concrete builder classes. The builders can then be used to get the resulting object, a `Car` ot `CarManual`, which can be interacted with to examine the parts put in. In the `Director` class I defined three functions to create specific cars that may be created often. The three functions create Sports Cars, SUVs and Sedans.