# Composite Pattern
This directory contains examples of the Composite design pattern implemented in TypeScript. The Composite Pattern is a structural design pattern that allows you to compose objects into tree structures to represent part-whole hierarchies. This pattern is especially useful when dealing with objects that can be grouped into larger, more complex structures, forming a unified interface for both individual objects and compositions. The goal is to allow for the client to treat both individual objects (simple) and complex objects the same, maybe even not knowing which they are. This helps make it easier to work with part-whole relationships and navigate through them. If at any point you would like to obtain and run these files refer to the root `README.md` found [here](../../).

## Conceptual Example
The conceptual example can be found in `conceptual.ts` and ran from `conceptual.js`. The TypeScript files contains the code and explanations of what each element does in the design pattern.

## Real-World Example
The real world example is a order system for a website in charge of packaging items and getting their price and a list of the order. The `Componenet` class is the base class where we define all common operations for simple and comlex objects. The key common operations are `getPrice`, to get the price of an order, and `orderList` which will list all elements in the order. The simple componenet is the `Product` class, this represents the actual products being sold. The `Product` holds it's price and name and returns then for `getPrice` and `orderList`, respectivly. The complex object is the `Box` class. The box has a list of childres which can be a `Box` or a `Product` and 'sums up' results for each of the key operations. The client code creates orders and then prints out the total price and the order contents.